.TH "spectral_embedding_model" "" "" "" ""
.SH NAME
.PP
\f[C]spectral_embedding_model<T>\f[] \- A data structure used in
modeling the outputs of the frovedis spectral embedding algorithm.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\f[C]#include\ <frovedis/ml/clustering/spectral_embedding_model.hpp>\f[]
.SS Constructors
.PP
\f[C]spectral_embedding_model<T>()\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]spectral_embedding_model<T>(rowmajor_matrix<T>\f[]& aff,
\f[C]rowmajor_matrix<T>\f[]& embed)
.SS Public Member Functions
.PP
void save(const std::string& dir)
.PD 0
.P
.PD
void savebinary(const std::string& dir)
.PD 0
.P
.PD
void load(const std::string& dir)
.PD 0
.P
.PD
void loadbinary(const std::string& dir)
.PD 0
.P
.PD
void debug_print()
.SS DESCRIPTION
.PP
\f[C]spectral_embedding_model<T>\f[] models the output of the frovedis
spectral embedding algorithms.
This model has the below structure:
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[C]template\ <class\ T>\f[]
.PD 0
.P
.PD
struct spectral_embedding_model {
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\  \  \  \  \  \  \f[C]rowmajor_matrix<T>\f[] affinity_matrix,
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\  \  \  \  \  \  \f[C]rowmajor_matrix<T>\f[] embed_matrix) };
.PP
This is a template based data structure, where "T" is supposed to be
"float" (single\-precision) or "double" (double\-precision).
Note this is a serialized data structure.
The detailed description can be found in subsequent sections.
.SS Public Member Function Documentation
.PP
\f[B]void save(const std::string& dir)\f[]
.PP
It saves the target model in the specified path in simple text format.
It will throw an exception, if any error occurs during the save
operation.
.PP
\f[B]void savebinary(const std::string& dir)\f[]
.PP
It saves the target model in the specified path in (little\-endian)
binary data format.
It will throw an exception, if any error occurs during the save
operation.
.PP
\f[B]void load(const std::string& dir)\f[]
.PP
It loads the target linear regression model from the data in specified
text file.
It will throw an exception, if any error occurs during the load
operation.
.PP
\f[B]void loadbinary(const std::string& dir)\f[]
.PP
It loads the target linear regression model from the data in specified
(little\-endian) binary file.
It will throw an exception, if any error occurs during the load
operation.
.PP
\f[B]void debug_print()\f[]
.PP
It prints the contents of the model on the user terminal.
It is mainly useful for debugging purpose.
.SS Public Data Member Documentation
.PP
\f[B]affinity_matrix:\f[] A \f[C]rowmajor_matrix<T>\f[] that return the
values of distance co\-related data values required for model building.
.PP
\f[B]embed_matrix:\f[] A \f[C]rowmajor_matrix<T>\f[] containing
meaningful patterns in normalized high dimensional data.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
spectral_embedding, spectral_clustering_model
